Brady Lund: Hello, everyone! Welcome back this week.
Brady Lund: Now that we have completed the midterm exam. We are on to the second
Brady Lund: half of our course and our topic for this week is information behavior. So
Brady Lund: in our previous full module, we talked about information retrieval, which is one example of an information behavior. But we have a wide range of different behaviors that we study when it comes to how people interact with information.
Brady Lund: So let's look into these.
Brady Lund: So what is information behavior to start
Brady Lund: well, as the the term itself implies, it is our behavior
Brady Lund: when we are interacting with information in our environment. So literally, how people behave with information.
Brady Lund: And this is an important area to study, because the more we know about how people interact with information, how people develop needs for certain types of information, how they're interacting with different tools in their environment to find information. And then what they're doing with that information, the more that we will know about how to
Brady Lund: design better systems, interact with these systems and ways to retrieve the information they need.
Brady Lund: Now as noted here, and as you can probably imagine information. Behavior is highly contextualized, which means
Brady Lund: different people interact with information in different ways based on
Brady Lund: some of their personality traits, demographics, the type of situation they're in. So, for instance, if you're looking just for leisure information, information to entertain you, you're scrolling through Tiktok. You're going to consume information in a different way than if you're looking for information to help you complete a research paper for a class, or write an essay, write speech. Those kinds of things. So behavior is highly contextualized, based off the setting you're in
Brady Lund: as well as the type of information you need. Leisure. Information is very different than
Brady Lund: information related to scholarly pursuits. And so based off of that context, how you interact with information, how you interact with systems is going to vary. And those are important considerations when we talk about designing a system.
Brady Lund: So let's look at some specific types of behaviors that we tend to study within our discipline.
Brady Lund: The first, st perhaps most important fundamental concept. To understand is an information need.
Brady Lund: And I have alluded to or mentioned information need as a concept several times already this semester
Brady Lund: information need is simply the need for some kind of information. So if I am trying to
Brady Lund: fix something in my car.
Brady Lund: and I look for a Youtube video explanation on how to fix that thing in my car. I am looking for that specific information. That is my information. Need I have an information need relating to how to fix that element of my car.
Brady Lund: If I'm asked to write an essay on some topic, and I need to find peer reviewed resources on that topic, then my information need is for information relating to that topic, so that I can write that paper. So information need again very literal definition and need for some kind of information.
Brady Lund: Information seeking.
Brady Lund: This is the process of taking that information need. So I know I need information on how to fix this element of my car. I know I need information relating to the subject, so I can write an essay, and then seeking is the process of actively looking for that information. So when I am searching on Youtube, typing in a query to find information related to how to fix that element of my car
Brady Lund: that I'm seeking information. I'm actively seeking information
Brady Lund: when I'm going to a library database or Google scholar to search for an article related to the topic of my essay. Then I'm seeking information.
Brady Lund: In that case, I'm also actively engaged in the process of retrieving information because I am involved with using interacting with the system to retrieve relevant information. Relevant articles so seeking processes can include retrieval activities. However, I could also seek information without actively engaging in retrieval
Brady Lund: an example of that if I ask somebody a question, then I am seeking information from them. But I'm not retrieving information from a database or a system.
Brady Lund: We also engage in information, sharing information. Sharing is simply exchanging information with other people whether there's an active need for it or not. So if I've learned something from a mutual friend, and I want to share this with a 3rd friend. And I'm saying, oh, you know this such and such happened to this person, that you know
Brady Lund: I'm giving them information. I'm sharing information with them, even if they didn't actively need that information. So we're exchanging information. We're communicating with one another. Information is being exchanged, even though neither of us were like actively seeking for it. We weren't asking for specific information. We are receiving information when we're interacting with other people.
Brady Lund: We have the concept of information use. That's simply okay. Now, we have information. How are we using this to solve some kind of problem or make some kind of decision. So add information need
Brady Lund: related to fixing this element on the car. I then went and sought or engaged in a seeking process, to find information that would address that need. So I found the Youtube video on how to fix that element. And then how am I going to use it. So information use. I'm going to now use that information that I got from that Youtube video to actually fix the element in the car. So now I'm using the information.
Brady Lund: And the last concept I'm going to talk about here is information, poverty that's simply a state where one is unable to find
Brady Lund: any information that addresses their need.
Brady Lund: And this would obviously have been very common
Brady Lund: pre computers. Pre Internet, when you might have to go to a physical library or have a book in a personal library in order to answer a question you have. So there would be many cases where you would not be able to address your information need in the past. It's a lot easier to address our information needs today because we have our smartphones with us, and we can simply type in a query and find
Brady Lund: relevant information hopefully through that process. But there's still
Brady Lund: situations today where a state of information poverty can exist. Maybe you're looking for information about a sensitive topic.
Brady Lund: Maybe there's a very rare situation you've encountered where you need information, or maybe you're facing some kind of situation of censorship where information source you like to use is not available to you. And so you cannot find the information you need.
Brady Lund: As with information retrieval, we do have models of information behavior that guide our study of
Brady Lund: well, how people interact with information, how people develop throughout this process of
Brady Lund: of creating an information need and then satisfying that information need. And there is a figure here on the right. Unfortunately, it's a bit blurry, but I'll try to explain it a little bit. This is one of our most widely known and popular models of information behavior. So it's a worthwhile one to know. And you can see at the top. Here we have the concept of the information user.
Brady Lund: So the person who actually is going to develop a need for certain information and then try to find information accordingly. So you have an information user.
Brady Lund: they develop an information need. And then they're going to engage in information seeking behavior. And there can be different types of behaviors with different types of resources. So you have information exchange here. That's essentially information sharing. So just through talking with people, you may be able to find information to address your need.
Brady Lund: But in many cases you're going to have to go to other sources. That may be an information system where you're going to type in a query and see what you find.
Brady Lund: Or it may be a specific information source that you know of. So
Brady Lund: so maybe you know of a specific website. Maybe you know of a specific book or article that has information that you think will be relevant. So you turn to that.
Brady Lund: In any case, you're going to encounter one of 2 situations. You're either going to have a situation of success
Brady Lund: or a situation of failure.
Brady Lund: If you reach a case of success, then you're going to ostensibly use that information and based off
Brady Lund: of using that information, you may find that you need additional information, in which case you may start the process over again. For instance, I might find, oh, I learned something about this one element of fixing a car, but I need to know more about another element of fixing my car based off of what I learned here. So I'm going to engage in a new process of information seeking.
Brady Lund: If you fail, you may start the process over again. Try again. Try different systems, try different sources, or you may give up. So this is a pretty popular model, and it's been around for a long time here.
Brady Lund: There are several different approaches and models of studying information behavior, though, that are worthwhile to know about another one is sense making, which you'll have a chance to study this week in our assignment if you choose to do so.
Brady Lund: Looking at how people are addressing specific gaps and information. And these types of models look more
Brady Lund: beyond just the process at how people are feeling.
Brady Lund: what's going on in their brain and their mind emotionally, as they're interacting with information. So if you experience a gap in your information, does that make you feel anxious? Does that make you feel lost?
Brady Lund: And how do you respond to that feeling of anxiety? And how does that inform what you're going to turn to to find information. Are you going to turn to more familiar sources, for instance, those kinds of things?
Brady Lund: And then there's a set of models that are called ecological models? And this is the type of model I tend to use in my research
Brady Lund: recently.
Brady Lund: And these look at an individual's behavior within the context of their entire environment.
Brady Lund: So we do not just work in an isolated laboratory situation. When we're looking for information, we're as part of a major ecosystem which includes media content being produced constantly social media, other people in our environment, we're also constantly looking for and sharing information.
Brady Lund: So rather than considering this isolated, like laboratory type process, an ecological model may look at how we interact with information being one component of this broad ecosystem where everybody's looking for different information, sharing different information. And what does that mean for how we interact with information?
Brady Lund: So why should we study information behavior? And how should we study information behavior? Well, information behavior tells us how people interact with information and technology. And obviously just like with studying information retrieval. That's really important for designing new systems, tools, technologies. We want to design things that people are going to actually use. So everything down to designing a smartphone
Brady Lund: relies on understanding how people are going to look and interact with information in their environment to create the best tools on our smartphone to help those people.
Brady Lund: This also helps us to understand human psychology
Brady Lund: in the realm of interaction between people and documents and information which, if you're studying psychology as a broad phenomenon, you want to be able to understand this specific aspect of interacting with information and documents.
Brady Lund: How do we study information behavior? Well, the most popular ways. And this is a bit old, this graphic here. But it gives you an idea. This is still pretty accurate. I've done more recent studies, and it's pretty accurate to what you see today in information behavior studies. We use interviews. We use surveys and we use content analysis interviews are asking people in an open, ended
Brady Lund: format. You know, how do you interact with information basically and getting information from them to study that phenomenon surveys, asking more discrete, like multiple choice type questions like, which source do you use to find information on topic X,
Brady Lund: and then content analysis. We can look at how people share information. For instance, posting comments on Tiktok videos,
Brady Lund: sharing information on Facebook. We can analyze just those comments to see how people are sharing and using information.
Brady Lund: So that is information behavior. We do have an assignment this week where you're going to be asked to study information behavior of some individuals. So you're actually going to get the process of doing some observations and writing about what you found in terms of the information of behavior of individuals. So as always, if you have any questions as you're working on that assignment, please feel free to reach out to me. I hope it will be helpful. I hope it will be insightful to you.
Brady Lund: and if you have any questions or anything, as you're navigating that just feel free to reach out, otherwise I'll see you again next week.
Brady Lund: and have a good rest of your day.